---

title:  "First Thoughts on Canada"
categories: travel
---

Saturday morning I left Kansas City, headed for Cleveland. Sunday was Cleveland
to Montr√©al. Google estimated this would take 22 hours if we didn't stop.

Well we did stop.

A lot.

All told, excluding hotel time, we took 34 hours. This is not actually a bad
thing, as we played about 14 different pinball machines, drove through downtown
Chicago and Toronto (which were NOT in Google's directions), and had a total
blast. I'll talk more about pinball in a later post.

This one is to share the observations upon crossing the border.

For one, crossing the border was eerily easy. Handed a guy my passport, answered
a few questions about why I was coming in to the country, and declared there
were no weapons, tasers, or bear traps (?).

After waiting an hour to cross bridge and border, we stopped at a rest stop for
the usual reasons. Approaching the vending machine full of American Coca-cola
branded products, I noticed a slight difference from home: there was no bill
slot. But the price showed $2, which I assumed was Canadian. What an oversight!
Someone's gotta bring 8 quarters with them to buy a drink from your machine?

Not.

Likely.

My hands went searching through my pockets impulsively, nevertheless. I happened
upon some Canadian coins I had brought from home. Behold! A weird $2 coin! It
all made sense in a flash.

The dollar and two dollar coins confuse me briefly. When I paid cash at a
convenience store later, I was expecting a couple singles, he hands me coins,
and I just stare at my hand for a second, wondering what it is I'm expecting.
Then a second later I remember there's big coins here. Real big. Worth whole
dollars.

And no pennies!!!

Lastly, let's talk about the units. If I see something in kilometers, I can
quickly convert. If I see a temperature, I can quickly convert. But ratios are
not kind when they start stacking.

Two times when I went to buy something, I realized how much I expect to have the
ability to gauge if something is relatively expensive. Because once the soda
bottle was $2 (Canadian), for 500 mL, I had no idea how that stacked up.

And when I paid 89 cents a liter for diesel, in Canadian cents, it's like:

Uh... 4 liters to a gallon or so, USD are about 3/4ths CAD, uh... That's
expensive? I think?

Lastly lastly, now that I'm in Quebec, the prevalence of French is a blast.
English is on a lot of signs and printed goods, but it's second. And on the
highway there was no English anywhere.
